# Mod-Sim-Project
ENVE 313. Modeling and Simulation of Environmental Systems. Project Specification. Summary: You will create and verify a python-based tool to simulate flow in the groundwater display. Background: The groundwater display in the Science Center atrium is intended to operate as an “experiment-on-display” where engineering students can create and explore scenarios that mimic the fate and transport of contaminants in the subsurface environment. The flow in this system can be modeled using Darcy’s law together with the principles of mass balance. We will develop the governing equations in class (even though this should be review for many of you). The equations so derived can be modeled on the computer using finite difference, finite volume, or finite element techniques. The techniques will also be covered in class. A further challenge will be handling the free-surface character of the flow. Literature will be provided to aid you in this matter. Requirements: The simulation tool that you develop should satisfy the following requirements: Allows user to modify the hydraulic conductivity of regions within the domain as well as the boundary conditions in a manner that conforms to the actual operation of the display Generates a graphical output showing the flow field Includes a suitably intuitive user interface Is well documented with a user manual as well as doc strings within the code Passes suitable verification tests Published as a module on github Teams: You may work in pairs but you are not required to do so. Project Management: Homework assignments will be used to guide you through the development of the code. You can manage your project by remaining completely up-to-date on the homework assignments. Deliverables and Grading: You will be expected to provide two deliverables on the last day of class (Tues. 4/28): (i) a github repository including your code and the documentation and (ii) a screen-cast demonstration of your functioning code. The repository will be graded on the basis of the requirements given above on a scale from 0-100 for each. The screen-cast will be graded using the standard engineering presentation rubric. The overall project grade will be the average of your repository and demonstration scores. Soil Display Information: The display itself is 110 cm by 200 cm. It can contain material ranging from impermeable clay (K = 0), to sand (K ranging from 0.001 to 1 cm/s), to small gavel (K ranging from 0.1 to 10 cm/s). For the purposes of this project you may assume that the right hand side of the display is operated under constant flux conditions while left hand side is open to seepage. (In reality both right and left sides are controlled by a series of ports, but the ports are close enough in spacing to make the aforementioned simplification.) The flow rate through the system is variable, but generally on the order of a liter per minute.
